documentation/2.0/content/setup/quickstart/create-wdt-model.md, before:

---
title: "Create the WebLogic Deploy Tooling model"
date: 2019-02-22T15:44:42-05:00
draft: false
weight: 5
---

The WebLogic Deploy Tooling project provides a set of single-purpose tools for performing lifecycle operations of
WebLogic Server domains.  These tools work off a model of the domain.  The model contains three types of files:

- Model file – A YAML description of the domain that is aligned with WebLogic Scripting Tool (WLST) offline folders and
  attributes.
- Variables file – An optional Java properties file that contains key/value pairs where the key matches with a token
  placed in the model file.
- Archive file – An optional ZIP file that contains any file artifacts that need to exist in the domain, for example, a 
  WAR file that contains the binaries for a Web application.

For more detailed WDT information, see the WebLogic Deploy Tooling
[documentation](https://oracle.github.io/weblogic-deploy-tooling/concepts/model/).

WKTUI provides tooling to make it easy for you to create and edit a WDT model.   This image shows the `Model` page, 
`Design View` tab that allows visual editing of a model.  

{{< img "Model Design View" "images/model-design-view.png" >}}

The following image shows the `Model` page, `Code View` tab that lets you directly edit each of the three different file
types that make up the model.  In the center of the screen, you'll find the YAML editor for the model file.  On the right,
you'll find the variables file editor and the archive file editor. At this point, all the sections are blank.

{{< img "Model Code View" "images/model-code-view.png" >}}

WKTUI also supports discovering an existing domain to extract the model for that domain.  It accomplishes this by using
the WDT [Discover Domain](https://oracle.github.io/weblogic-deploy-tooling/userguide/tools/discover/) tool.  To use this
functionality, you use the `File` menu, `Add Model` submenu.  The two 
menu items are:

- `Discover Model (offline)` – With this option, WDT reads the domain directory from the local file system to extract 
  the model files.
- `Discover Model (online)` – With this option, WDT connects to the domain’s running Administration Server to extract
  the model files.  To collect all of the archive file contents automatically, the domain must be running on the local
  machine so that WDT has access to the domain’s file system.  

To collect the model from a domain running on another machine, you can use the Remote Discovery option.  With this option,
at the end of the Discover Domain (online) action, WDT will tell you which files you need to collect and add to the 
archive file.

Because the ToDo List application has minimal requirements from the domain, you will create the model by hand.  If you
would prefer to create a local domain and use the discover model functionality, see 
[Create ToDo List Domain]({{< relref "/setup/quickstart/qs-advanced#create-the-local-todo-list-domain" >}}) in the 
Advanced section.

### Create the ToDo List Domain

Start on the Model Design View tab, which will default to the **Domain Info** section top-level page. Set the 
`Admin User Name` and `Admin Password` fields to the user name and password that you want for your WebLogic domain. Also,
select the `Server Start Mode` value of `Production Mode` to simplify things for this guide.

{{< img "Domain Settings" "images/domain-info-settings.png" >}}

Next, click on the **Topology** section in the navigation bar to go to the domain settings.  Enter `todolist_domain` in 
the `Name` field.  There is no need to turn on `Production Mode Enabled` since you already took care of that on the 
**Domain Info** page.

{{< img "Domain Settings" "images/domain-settings.png" >}}

Next, you need to create a server template that you will use with your dynamic cluster.  Select the **Server Templates**
element, add a new server template using the **+** icon in the table header, specify the name as `todo-srv-template`, 
and then click **OK**.  After you create the template, select the link in the table enable `Listen Port Enabled` so that
the screen looks like the following image.  

{{< img "Server Template" "images/server-template-1.png" >}}

Next, you will need to create the dynamic cluster.  Select the **Clusters** item in the navigation bar and create a new 
cluster named `mycluster`. Before moving on to configure the new cluster, return to the Server Template `todo-srv-template`
page and set the `Cluster` field using the dropdown menu to `mycluster`.

Navigate to the new cluster, `Clustepartirs` > `mycluster`, and select the **Dynamic Servers** tab.  Set the fields to the 
values specified in the following table. A couple of things to note:

- The `Max Dynamic Cluster Size` is in the **WLDF Elasticity Framework Settings** expandable setion at the bottom of the page.
- Although the `Enabled Calculated Listen Ports` field is already in the `false` position (because it is not in the model
  yet), the default value is `true`.  As such, you must turn the switch on to add it to the model and then off so that
  the model value is set to `false`. You might wonder how to remove it from the model if you added it by mistake.  Simply
  use the three dot menu (also known as the kebab menu) to the right of the control and select the 
  `Remove the field from the model` radio button and select **OK**.

| Field Name                       | Value                                                        |
|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Server Template`                | `todo-srv-template`                                          |
| `Server Name Prefix`             | `ToDoServer-`                                                |
| `Dynamic Cluster Size`           | `10`                                                         |
| `Max Dynamic Cluster Size`       | `10`                                                         |
| `Enable Calculated Listen Ports` | `Off`                                                        |

### Create a Data Source

The next step is to create a data source to communicate with the MySQL database.  Before doing that, switch to the 
`Code View` tab to see what the WDT model looks like so far.

{{< img "Partial Model Code View" "images/partial-model-code-view.png" >}}

As you can see in the preceding image, the settings you entered are represented in the YAML Editor. Now, switch back to
the `Design View` tab.

Go to the **Resources** > **Data Sources** section, add a new Data Source using the values in the following table, 
and then click **Create**. Note that you can choose any database user name and password below.  Just make sure that you
use these same credentials when deploying the MySQL database later. 

| Field Name                     | Value                                                                  |
|--------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Name`                         | `myDataSource`                                                         |
| `Datasource Type`              | `Generic Data Source`                                                  |
| `Targets`                      | `mycluster`                                                            |
| `Driver Name`                  | `com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver`                                             |
| `URL`                          | `jdbc:mysql://mysql:3306/tododb`                                       |
| `Password`                     | Choose a database password for the database user                       |
| `Database User Name`           | Create Property named `user` with the database user name as its value  |
| `Global Transactions Protocol` | `OnePhaseCommit`                                                       |
| `JNDI Names`                   | `jdbc/ToDoDB`                                                          |

After the `myDataSource` Data Source is created, go to the **JDBC Connection Pool Parameter** > **Connection Testing**
tab and make the following changes:
1.	Enable `Test Connection On Reserve`.
2.	Set the Test Table Name to `ToDos`.

Now, you need to add the application.  Go to **Deployments** > **Applications** section, add a new application using the
values in the following table, and then click **Create**.  You must replace the `$QS_HOME` value in the table with the
path where you stored the Quick Start directory when downloading the code.   

When selecting the application to use, make sure to select the proper application based on the target WebLogic Server
version you intend to use.  Choose based on the following

- `$QS_HOME/app/target/todo.war`: Choose this todo.war file for WebLogic Server versions 12.2.1.4 through 14.1.2.0
- `$QS_HOME/app-jakarta/target/todo.war`: Choose this todo.war for WebLogic Server version 15.1.1.0 or newer

When selecting the Source Path using the file chooser, make sure to choose the `Add this file to the archive file` option
on the `Source Path Location` dialog that follows the file chooser.  Note that after doing this, the `Source Path` value
will change to reflect its path in the archive file (`wlsdeploy/applications/todo.war`).

| Field Name    | Value                                                                     |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Name`        | `todo`                                                                    |
| `Source Path` | `$QS_HOME/app/target/todo.war` or `$QS_HOME/app-jakarta/target/todo.war`  |
| `Targets`     | `mycluster`                                                               |

Even though the model is complete enough to create a local domain, you still need to add a few things so that the 
WebLogic Kubernetes Operator can use the model.

1. Create a new Server called `AdminServer` without changing any of its attributes.
2. One the **Topology** page, set the `Admin Server Name` field to `AdminServer`.

Once you have done this, switch back to the `Code View` tab and your topology section of the model should look like
the following.  Do not worry if the fields or sections are in different orders.

```
topology:
    Name: todolist_domain
    AdminServerName: AdminServer
    Server:
        AdminServer:
    Cluster:
        mycluster:
            DynamicServers:
                ServerTemplate: 'todo-srv-template'
                ServerNamePrefix: 'ToDoServer-'
                DynamicClusterSize: 10
                MaxDynamicClusterSize: 10
                CalculatedListenPorts: false
    ServerTemplate:
        'todo-srv-template':
            ListenPortEnabled: true
            Cluster: mycluster
```
### Validate and Prepare the Model

The domain model is now complete.  Go ahead and validate the model by clicking **Validate Model** or using the `Go` menu,
`Validate Model Files` menu item.  Doing this will invoke the WDT Validate Model Tool and the Console window at the
bottom of the screen will display the output of the tool, as shown in the following image. You can close the Console
Window at any time.

{{< img "Validate Model Code View" "images/validate-model-code-view.png" >}}

When deploying a domain in Kubernetes, you need to prepare it for that environment.  The WDT Prepare Model Tool gives
you what you need to accomplish that.  WKTUI has a special integration with Prepare Model in that not only does it
adjust the model for the Kubernetes environment, but also it returns data extracted from the model that WKTUI needs.
For example, Prepare Model returns the list of WebLogic clusters and non-clustered managed servers that other parts of
the application use to tailor the environment for this domain.  Click **Prepare Model** to invoke the WDT Prepare Model
Tool.

Because you chose to use Model-in-Image for the Quick Start exercise, Prepare Model made several changes to your model.

- Replaced credentials with tokens that reference Kubernetes Secrets.
- Replaced fields like the `Data Source URL` with a token that references a variable.

The following image shows the completed model that is ready to put in an image, so save the project before you move to
the next section.

{{< img "Prepare Model Code View" "images/prepare-model-code-view.png" >}}

Commit message:

first cut at updating the Docs, quickstart, and sample

documentation/2.0/content/setup/quickstart/create-wdt-model.md, after:

---
title: "Create the WebLogic Deploy Tooling model"
date: 2019-02-22T15:44:42-05:00
draft: false
weight: 5
---

The WebLogic Deploy Tooling project provides a set of single-purpose tools for performing lifecycle operations of
WebLogic Server domains.  These tools work off a model of the domain.  The model contains three types of files:

- Model file – A YAML description of the domain that is aligned with WebLogic Scripting Tool (WLST) offline folders and
  attributes.
- Variables file – An optional Java properties file that contains key/value pairs where the key matches with a token
  placed in the model file.
- Archive file – An optional ZIP file that contains any file artifacts that need to exist in the domain, for example, a 
  WAR file that contains the binaries for a Web application.

For more detailed WDT information, see the WebLogic Deploy Tooling
[documentation](https://oracle.github.io/weblogic-deploy-tooling/concepts/model/).

WKTUI provides tooling to make it easy for you to create and edit a WDT model.   This image shows the `Model` page, 
`Design View` tab that allows visual editing of a model.  

{{< img "Model Design View" "images/model-design-view.png" >}}

The following image shows the `Model` page, `Code View` tab that lets you directly edit each of the three different file
types that make up the model.  In the center of the screen, you'll find the YAML editor for the model file.  On the right,
you'll find the variables file editor and the archive file editor. At this point, all the sections are blank.

{{< img "Model Code View" "images/model-code-view.png" >}}

WKTUI also supports discovering an existing domain to extract the model for that domain.  It accomplishes this by using
the WDT [Discover Domain](https://oracle.github.io/weblogic-deploy-tooling/userguide/tools/discover/) tool.  To use this
functionality, you use the `File` menu, `Add Model` submenu.  The two 
menu items are:

- `Discover Model (offline)` – With this option, WDT reads the domain directory from the local file system to extract 
  the model files.
- `Discover Model (online)` – With this option, WDT connects to the domain’s running Administration Server to extract
  the model files.  To collect all of the archive file contents automatically, the domain must be running on the local
  machine so that WDT has access to the domain’s file system.  

To collect the model from a domain running on another machine, you can use the Remote Discovery option.  With this option,
at the end of the Discover Domain (online) action, WDT will tell you which files you need to collect and add to the 
archive file.

Because the ToDo List application has minimal requirements from the domain, you will create the model by hand.  If you
would prefer to create a local domain and use the discover model functionality, see 
[Create ToDo List Domain]({{< relref "/setup/quickstart/qs-advanced#create-the-local-todo-list-domain" >}}) in the 
Advanced section.

### Create the ToDo List Domain

Start on the Model Design View tab, which will default to the **Domain Info** section top-level page. Set the 
`Admin User Name` and `Admin Password` fields to the user name and password that you want for your WebLogic domain. Also,
select the `Server Start Mode` value of `Production Mode` to simplify things for this guide.

{{< img "Domain Settings" "images/domain-info-settings.png" >}}

Next, click on the **Topology** section in the navigation bar to go to the domain settings.  Enter `todolist_domain` in 
the `Name` field.  There is no need to turn on `Production Mode Enabled` since you already took care of that on the 
**Domain Info** page.

{{< img "Domain Settings" "images/domain-settings.png" >}}

Next, you need to create a server template that you will use with your dynamic cluster.  Select the **Server Templates**
element, add a new server template using the **+** icon in the table header, specify the name as `todo-srv-template`, 
and then click **OK**.  After you create the template, select the link in the table, enable `Listen Port Enabled` and
set the `Listen Port` to `8100` so that the screen looks like the following image.  

{{< img "Server Template" "images/server-template-1.png" >}}

Next, you will need to create the dynamic cluster.  Select the **Clusters** item in the navigation bar and create a new 
cluster named `mycluster`. Before moving on to configure the new cluster, return to the Server Template `todo-srv-template`
page and set the `Cluster` field using the dropdown menu to `mycluster`.

Navigate to the new cluster, **Cluster** > **mycluster**, and select the **Dynamic Servers** tab.  Set the fields to the 
values specified in the following table. A couple of things to note:

- The `Max Dynamic Cluster Size` is in the **WLDF Elasticity Framework Settings** expandable setion at the bottom of the page.
- Although the `Enabled Calculated Listen Ports` field is already in the `false` position (because it is not in the model
  yet), the default value is `true`.  As such, you must turn the switch on to add it to the model and then off so that
  the model value is set to `false`. You might wonder how to remove it from the model if you added it by mistake.  Simply
  use the three dot menu (also known as the kebab menu) to the right of the control and select the 
  `Remove the field from the model` radio button and select **OK**.

| Field Name                       | Value                                                        |
|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Server Template`                | `todo-srv-template`                                          |
| `Server Name Prefix`             | `ToDoServer-`                                                |
| `Dynamic Cluster Size`           | `10`                                                         |
| `Max Dynamic Cluster Size`       | `10`                                                         |
| `Enable Calculated Listen Ports` | `Off`                                                        |

### Create a Data Source

The next step is to create a data source to communicate with the MySQL database.  Before doing that, switch to the 
`Code View` tab to see what the WDT model looks like so far.

{{< img "Partial Model Code View" "images/partial-model-code-view.png" >}}

As you can see in the preceding image, the settings you entered are represented in the YAML Editor. Now, switch back to
the `Design View` tab.

Go to the **Resources** > **Data Sources** section, add a new Data Source using the values in the following table, 
and then click **Create**. Note that you can choose any database user name and password below.  Just make sure that you
use these same credentials when deploying the MySQL database later. 

| Field Name                     | Value                                                                  |
|--------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Name`                         | `myDataSource`                                                         |
| `Datasource Type`              | `Generic Data Source`                                                  |
| `Targets`                      | `mycluster`                                                            |
| `Driver Name`                  | `com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver`                                             |
| `URL`                          | `jdbc:mysql://mysql:3306/tododb`                                       |
| `Password`                     | Choose a database password for the database user                       |
| `Database User Name`           | Create Property named `user` with the database user name as its value  |
| `Global Transactions Protocol` | `OnePhaseCommit`                                                       |
| `JNDI Names`                   | `jdbc/ToDoDB`                                                          |

After the `myDataSource` Data Source is created, go to the **JDBC Connection Pool Parameter** > **Connection Testing**
tab and make the following changes:
1.	Enable `Test Connection On Reserve`.
2.	Set the Test Table Name to `ToDos`.

Now, you need to add the application.  Go to **Deployments** > **Applications** section, add a new application using the
values in the following table, and then click **Create**.  You must replace the `$QS_HOME` value in the table with the
path where you stored the Quick Start directory when downloading the code.   

When selecting the application to use, make sure to select the proper application based on the target WebLogic Server
version you intend to use.  Choose based on the following:

- `$QS_HOME/app/target/todo.war`: Choose this todo.war file for WebLogic Server versions 14.1.1.0 or 14.1.2.0
- `$QS_HOME/app-jakarta/target/todo.war`: Choose this todo.war for WebLogic Server version 15.1.1.0 or newer

Note that while the sample application can run on WebLogic Server 12.2.1.4, you will need to change the
`$QS_HOME/app/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml` deployment descriptor to point to the Java EE 7 Web Application 3.1
specification and rebuild the binary by running `mvn clean package` in the `$QS_HOME/app` directory.

When selecting the Source Path using the file chooser, make sure to choose the `Add this file to the archive file` option
on the `Source Path Location` dialog that follows the file chooser.  Note that after doing this, the `Source Path` value
will change to reflect its path in the archive file (`wlsdeploy/applications/todo.war`).

| Field Name    | Value                                                                     |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Name`        | `todo`                                                                    |
| `Source Path` | `$QS_HOME/app/target/todo.war` or `$QS_HOME/app-jakarta/target/todo.war`  |
| `Targets`     | `mycluster`                                                               |

Even though the model is complete enough to create a local domain, you still need to add a few things so that the 
WebLogic Kubernetes Operator can use the model.

1. Create a new Server called `AdminServer` without changing any of its attributes.
2. One the **Topology** page, set the `Admin Server Name` field to `AdminServer`.

Once you have done this, switch back to the `Code View` tab and your topology section of the model should look like
the following.  Do not worry if the fields or sections are in different orders.

```
topology:
    Name: todolist_domain
    AdminServerName: AdminServer
    Server:
        AdminServer:
    Cluster:
        mycluster:
            DynamicServers:
                ServerTemplate: todo-srv-template
                ServerNamePrefix: ToDoServer-
                DynamicClusterSize: 10
                MaxDynamicClusterSize: 10
                CalculatedListenPorts: false
    ServerTemplate:
        'todo-srv-template':
            ListenPortEnabled: true
            ListenPort: 8100
            Cluster: mycluster
```
### Validate and Prepare the Model

The domain model is now complete.  Go ahead and validate the model by clicking **Validate Model** or using the `Go` menu,
`Validate Model Files` menu item.  Doing this will invoke the WDT Validate Model Tool and the Console window at the
bottom of the screen will display the output of the tool, as shown in the following image. You can close the Console
Window at any time.

{{< img "Validate Model Code View" "images/validate-model-code-view.png" >}}

When deploying a domain in Kubernetes, you need to prepare it for that environment.  The WDT Prepare Model Tool gives
you what you need to accomplish that.  WKTUI has a special integration with Prepare Model in that not only does it
adjust the model for the Kubernetes environment, but also it returns data extracted from the model that WKTUI needs.
For example, Prepare Model returns the list of WebLogic clusters and non-clustered managed servers that other parts of
the application use to tailor the environment for this domain.  Click **Prepare Model** to invoke the WDT Prepare Model
Tool.

Because you chose to use Model-in-Image for the Quick Start exercise, Prepare Model made several changes to your model.

- Replaced credentials with tokens that reference Kubernetes Secrets.
- Replaced fields like the `Data Source URL` with a token that references a variable.

The following image shows the completed model that is ready to put in an image, so save the project before you move to
the next section.

{{< img "Prepare Model Code View" "images/prepare-model-code-view.png" >}}
